you
hello I'm Linda Kemp and we're in the
studio today to work on some projects
together what we'll be doing in our in
our assignments today is a watercolor
demonstration along the lines of the
paintings that I have with me the two on
the back these are watercolors and the
one on this side is an acrylic so we're
going to be working on controlling the
out of control these are situations that
I often see in my workshops where people
struggle away with the things that are
going on in particular we're going to be
working wet into wet and building
multiple layers
so if I was painting in the positive the
way that most of us usually work I would
be filling in my shape with color but
instead of doing that because I'm
working in the negative I'm painting the
space around it so I'm just going to
glide that color over and I'm committing
to memory this stroke that I'm making
and I'm going to pull the color out wash
it away this is a really good idea to
practice this before you get into a
painting especially when you're working
wet into wet so that your hand is
trained to the shapes that you're making
again I'm washing that color away let's
try it once more without drawing it in
but that's the basic concept of what
we're after
so this stroke load up this brush one
two and fill that in a little bit more
so there's my basic shape now in my
sample and my photograph they have not
just cut into them so I'm going to do
that with my brush I'm going to cut
those in now so I'm carving away at that
shape
when you're working with watercolors you
don't have to just put it on with thin
layers drying in between paint does such
fabulous stuff
oh it just spreads and it flows and it
moves so why not let it do its thing I'm
knocking a little bit of that turquoise
in there just because I can let's do a
little more if you like it in one spot
put it in another spot if you put it
down and you don't like it somewhere put
it in another spot anyways because if at
this point if I got panicky and I
grabbed a piece of tissue and I start
patting at the surface I'm going to I'm
going to disturb things and I'm not
going to be happy with the marks that
are left on the paper I want this to be
really wet look at those nice darks in
here I'm thinking about the overall
movement the structure of the plant the
stems more code do you notice I haven't
washed my brush out yet let's just put
some of that rosy color in here that
nice color even though we've got some
pretty bright lights on here in the
studio you can see how long I have to
work in this wet and wet approach
building up these layers because first
of all I wet my paper so completely to
begin with and put it on this non-porous
surface so it's really stewing in its
own juice and I'm using all this thick
paint I've got my little rigger brush
and I'm wetting it down I'm going to
take out some of the water and I'm going
to just tickle it just like I am on my
arm just tickle it across the surface of
the paper just because they said it's
it's so vulnerable just a wee brushing
with this a little bit of moisture on
this long brush and I should get some
nice little light lines happening
because what I'm doing is I'm forcing
some background so let's hope it works
you know whenever you want it to it
doesn't oh yeah
there it comes there we go put some
little lines down in there just to break
that up a bit
I'm going to turn my painting as I go so
that I can get into the shapes that I
want and I'm comfortable handling the
brush this way you'll see I keep my
finger on my paper where I need a
reminder of here's where I'm going to go
so if I have a leaf here here's a little
here's a little less space between the
leaf the colors that I use are guided by
what color is already in the
underpainting it's entirely up to you
how many layers you like to build in
your painting some people want to leave
it loose and diffused so you may choose
to only do one or two layers and
somebody else might like to be a little
bit more specific about the shapes that
you're making and tell more provide more
information so that person may choose to
build a lot of layers and we looked at
building multiple layers and that's
exactly what you would do you just
continue to do this it's good to stand
back from time to time assess what's
happening yes I am getting a bit of a
background here so dry off my brush and
tease this edge goodbye to the
background
let's hope now the colors that are down
here I've got a little bit of the rosy
color again just a tint don't need a
whole lot and I'm going to drop that in
to paint around I'm thinking about the
large mass form of the berries rather
than individual little berries let's
wash this down and decide how far do I
want to pull this color I'm looking at
the shape of this branch you don't need
to define it too much there we go we're
just carving it away and then I'll wash
it up there's some
Rosi kind of color here let's pull it
forward get some of that cobalt
turquoise light in again I'm just
sticking with the colors that were in my
under painting I know I'm completely
safe to use the five colors that I
started with I can use them absolutely
anywhere in this painting and I won't
get into any problems it's when you are
3/4 the way through a painting and you
start searching through your palette or
into your paint box thinking well what
color am I going to use now that's when
we get into problems with color harmony
so if you stick with whatever you begin
your painting with carry that theme
through the whole painting you will
absolutely guarantee yourself success as
far as the color goes no matter what
colors you've chosen to use
you